.TH ATTRD_UPDATER "8" "2026-02-27" "Pacemaker 3.0.1" "Pacemaker Manual"
.SH "NAME"
attrd_updater \- query and update Pacemaker node attributes
.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.SY attrd_updater
.B { \-n \fIattribute\fB \|| \-P \fIpattern\fB } <command>
.RI [ option\~ ...]
.YS
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B attrd_updater
manages transient and private node attributes.  Transient node attributes are
recorded in the CIB, but will be erased when the cluster is restarted.  Private
node attributes are never recorded in the CIB.  They exist only in memory in the
Pacemaker attribute daemon (\fBpacemaker\-attrd\fR) and will therefore also be
erased when the cluster is restarted.
.P
.B attrd_updater
can also be used to create attributes for cluster nodes that do not yet exist,
and can manage how often attribute changes are flushed to the CIB (called
"damping") to minimize disk writes for frequent changes.  It is also used by
resource agents, particularly node health agents, for setting and querying
node status.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Required arguments"
One of the following arguments must be provided.  These arguments are mutually
exclusive.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name =\fINAME\fR
The attribute's name.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-pattern =\fIPATTERN\fR
Operate on all attributes matching this pattern (with \fB\-B\fR, \fB\-D\fR,
\fB\-U\fR, or \fB\-Y\fR).  Patterns are regular expressions as understood by
.MR regex 7 .
.
.SS "Commands"
One of the following commands must be provided.  These options are mutually
exclusive.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-update\-both =\fIVALUE\fR
Set the value of the given attribute (creating it if it does not already exist),
or all attributes matched by the given pattern, to \fIVALUE\fR.  Additionally,
set the attribute's time to wait (dampening) in the attribute manager to the
value given by \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-\-delay\fR.  If this changes the value or
dampening, the attribute will also be written to the cluster configuration, so
be aware that repeatedly changing the dampening reduces its effectiveness.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-delete
Unset the value of the given attribute, or all attributes matched by the given
pattern, in the attribute manager.  At the moment, there is no way to remove
an attribute.  This option will instead set its value to the empty string.
.TP
.BR \-Q ", " \-\-query
Query the attribute's value from the attribute manager.  By default, this will
query the value of the attribute on the local node.  Use \fB\-N\fR or \fB\-\-node\fR
for the value on a given node, or \fB\-A\fR or \fB\-\-all\fR for the value on
all nodes.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-refresh
(Advanced) Force the attribute manager to resend all current values to the CIB.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-update =\fIVALUE\fR
Set the value of the given attribute (creating it if it does not already exist),
or all attributes matched by the given pattern, to \fIVALUE\fR.  If \fB\-d\fR or
\fB\-\-delay\fR is specified, the delay will be used if the attribute needs to
be created and ignored otherwise.
.TP
.BR \-Y ", " \-\-update-delay
Set the dampening in the attribute manager for the given attribute, or all
attributes matched by the given pattern, to the value given by \fB\-d\fR or
\fB\-\-delay\fR.  If this changes the dampening, the attribute will also be
written to the cluster configuration, so be aware that repeatedly changing the
dampening reduces its effectiveness.
.
.SS "Additional options"
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-all
Show values of the given attribute on all nodes (query only).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delay =\fISECONDS\fR
The time to wait (dampening) in seconds for further changes before sending
to the CIB.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-lifetime =\fITIMESPEC\fR
Use the ISO-8601 \fITIMESPEC\fR as the lifetime of the attribute.  \fITIMESPEC\fR
is given according to
.UR https://\:en\:.wikipedia\:.org/\:wiki/\:ISO_8601#Durations
.UE .
This option is not yet implemented and will be silently ignored by the cluster.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-node =\fINODE\fR
Use \fINODE\fR as the node for setting and querying the attribute instead of
the local one.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-private
If a new attribute is created, do not write it to the CIB.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-set =\fISET\fR
(Advanced) The attribute set in which to place the value.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wait= \fIUNTIL\fR
Wait for some event to occur before returning to the shell.  Values are:
.RS
.IP \fIno\fR (default)
Wait only for the attribute manager to acknowledge the request.
.IP \fIlocal\fR
Wait until the change has propagated to where a local query will return the
request value, or the value set by a later request.
.IP \fIcluster\fR
Wait until the change has propagated to where a query anywhere on the cluster
will return the requested value, or the value set by a later request.
.RE
.TP
.BR \-z ", " \-\-utilization
When creating a new attribute, create it as a node utilization attribute
instead of an instance attribute.  If the attribute already exists, its
existing type will be used regardless (with \fB\-B\fR, \fB\-U\fR, or \fB\-Y\fR).
.
.SS "Output options"
.TP
.BI \-\-output\-as= FORMAT
Specify output format as one of: text (default), xml.
.TP
.BI \-\-output\-to= DEST
Specify file name for output (or "\-" for stdout).
.
.SS "Help options"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show basic help options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-additional
Show additional options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show all help options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-command
Show program commands.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-output
Show output-related help options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-required
Show required arguments.
.
.SS "Application options"
.TP
.BR \-$ ", " \-\-version
Display software version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Increase debug output (may be specified multiple times).
.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
This is not an exhaustive list of exit statuses for \fBattrd_updater\fR.  See
.MR crm_error 8
for more information on converting between error codes and their names.
.TP
.B CRM_EX_CONFIG
The given attribute does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN, ECONNREFUSED
\fBattrd_updater\fR had problems connecting to or communicating with
\fBpacemaker-attrd\fR.
.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-n "#health\-cpu" \-Q
.EE
.RS
Query the value of the \fB#health\-cpu\fR attribute on the current node
.RE
.P
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-n "#health\-cpu" \-Q \-A
.EE
.RS
Query the value of the \fB#health\-cpu\fR attribute on all cluster nodes
.RE
.P
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-n ABC \-U 111
.EE
.RS
Set the value of the \fBABC\fR attribute to \fB111\fR on the current node
.RE
.P
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-n ABD \-U 222 \-w cluster
.EE
.RS
Set the value of the \fBABD\fR attribute to \fB222\fR on the current node, and
do not return until this change has propagated to all cluster nodes
.RE
.P
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-n ABE \-U 333 \-Y \-d 15
.EE
.RS
Set the value of the \fBABE\fR attribute to \fB333\fR on the current node, and
wait 15 seconds before sending any changes to this attribute to the CIB
.RE
.P
.EX
# \fBattrd_updater \-P "AB.*" -D
.EE
.RS
Unset the value of all attributes matching the regular expression \fBAB.*\fR
.RE
.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to https://bugs.clusterlabs.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=Pacemaker
.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright © 2004-2026 the Pacemaker project contributors.
.P
This program is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 2 or
later (GPLv2+) WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crm_attribute (8),
.BR crm_error (8),
.BR regex (7)
